it's nothing evitable we're all gonna
get heartbroken over and over again
we're all gonna deal with failures all
over again but it's how we think about
those moments in that moment so I've
kind of trained my brain to allow myself
to be upset when I'm heartbroken and
allow myself to feel failure but not be
down in the dumps about it for too long
getting hurt efficiently means were hurt
how can we efficiently learn a lesson in
this moment so that the next time you
will be hard booking which you will be
it's inevitable you're better equipped
to deal with it everybody welcome to
impact Theory our goal with this show
and company is to introduce you to the
people and ideas that will help you
actually execute on your dreams all
right today's guest is a comedian
actress entertainer New York Times
bestselling author and one of the
biggest YouTube stars on the planet with
over 2.5 billion views to her name and a
combined subscriber count of over 30
million it's not hard to see why Forbes
magazine named her the number one
influencer in the entertainment category
her rise to superstardom however was
anything but obvious her first video on
YouTube only received 70 total views and
it took her the better part of a decade
of serving your viewers her signature
brand of hilarious positivity to rise to
the top her determination hard work and
blinding commitment to her fans however
paid off big-time
and Forbes recently estimated her annual
income at over 10 million dollars making
her the top earning female on YouTube
she's also collaborated with some of the
biggest stars in the world including
Will Smith Bill Gates zendaya Selena
Gomez and Dwayne the rock Johnson and
proving that she's bankable beyond
YouTube she's also landed roles in the
major motion pictures bad moms Ice Age
collision course and HBO's Fahrenheit
451 her reach even extends beyond
entertainment in 2017 she was appointed
UNICEF's global goodwill ambassador and
her female empowerment initiative girl
love was backed by Michelle Obama and as
if that wasn't enough she's also a
proven entrepreneur who has launched her
own lipstick with makeup juggernaut
Smashbox and done
and partnerships with global Giants such
as coca-cola Pantene and Calvin Klein so
please help me in welcoming the woman
Verve magazine called a pop culture
superhero the superwoman herself
Lilly Singh you do my intros all the
time that's the plan that was the best
thing I was standing there and I was
like well we could have kept going I
really insane what you've done with a
platform that started out as a unknown
pretty much back when you started
YouTube was not like a future career
thing like it is now just weird in and
of itself but also that it was born of
the depression and trying to like
kickstart and do something that was
going to shake you out of that how did
you begin that process of building
something what does the the March to
success start with yeah for me honestly
was unplanned so it wasn't I think right
now we're in a time where a lot of
creators think YouTube is a very
sustainable platform and I want to be a
youtuber so let me be rich and famous on
YouTube when I started in 2010 that was
not a thing you know I was the last
person to catch on to YouTube all my
friends are watching this thing and I
was like what are you guys wasting your
time with on this video platform thing
it's gonna disappear and I spontaneously
one day posted a video not because I
thought it could be my job not because I
could thought I could make money from it
but literally because I was sad so the
story is that I was getting my
psychology degree and I wasn't
passionate about it you know I was doing
everything my sister had done before me
you know I was following her footsteps
blindly and after I graduated my dad was
like great now get your master's degree
and I was like okay this is I don't
think I could do this anymore I don't
I'm not passionate about any of these
things and so in that little funk I
discovered YouTube it's kind of like the
stars aligning perfectly and I posted a
first video really spontaneously it was
a spoken word piece about religion it
was very very very bad and it got 70
views and I think I just fell in love
with having a goal during that downtime
and learning something new something I
wasn't trained at psychology doesn't
really help that much with learning how
to use a camera and so I had to make it
up as I went along it was very same for
me speaking of making it up as you go
along so your book how to be a Baus nail
the pronoun
I know you were nervous everyone's
nervous right how do BIA you got a
practice nailed it nailed it you and
reading the book eh I was impressed
because it's really good and so that I
hope people really pick it up it's it
got a lot of stuff that's incredibly
usable and in it you were describing
what a boss is exactly it again um I got
you and what I loved about it there was
something and it's so surprising and I
wanted to ask you about it and you said
the boss is somebody that is hurt
efficiently yeah and I thought whoa what
does that mean how does one yeah it's
kind of another way of saying it is that
there's no failures there's lessons I
mean that's that's another way of
putting it but it's just this idea of
when I reflect back in my life and I
think about all the times I really
became a better person or a smarter
person it's because of something that
was very hurtful or painful or an
unpleasant experience and now I think
very often in the future now when I'm
when I'm through those experience it's
nothing avital we're all gonna get
heartbroken over and over again we're
all gonna deal with failures all over
again but it's how we think about those
moments in that moment so I've kind of
trained my brain to allow myself to be
upset when I'm heartbroken and allow
myself to feel failure but not be down
in the dumps about it for too long not
be like oh well I'm worthless or oh well
this is just how it's meant to be in the
world's against me getting hurt
efficiently means we're hurt how can we
efficiently learn a lesson in this
moment what could I have done
differently what could I expect it
differently how could I have reacted
differently so that the next time you
will be heartbroken which you will be
it's inevitable you're better equipped
to deal with it so you've got a lot of
codifications ways of conceptualizing
life and how things are and how you
should react to them you talk about
getting control of your mind where did
you begin to put all of this stuff
together and what are some of the really
important parts of your code of beliefs
you know it was funny when I was writing
my book and I was sitting in my room all
alone I thought oh my god I think I'm
really smart honestly I was writing all
this stuff because like these are all
things I've done in my life and
experiences I've had but it wasn't until
I was compiling them in a book that I
thought oh these are just organized
lessons of my life and so the
book writing experience was liberating
for me and very educational for me as
well and I'm so glad that people that
read it feel the same way but the code
honestly came from being unhappy that's
the truth I think I learned how to be
happy because I know what unhappiness
felt like and I was able to dissect all
the reasons I was unhappy you know all
the reasons one of them blindly
following my sister doing what she was
doing listening to everyone else except
myself I'm not paying attention to all
the signs my mind and body were giving
me saying we're not doing the right
thing and I think having so much
experience in that dark phase really
helps you become better because how can
you become better if you don't know what
the worst version of yourself is and
what are some of those signs of the mind
and body what do they look like what do
they feel like because I think this is
something that people struggle with a
lot yeah people often ask me they watch
my vlogs my second vlog channel where
I'm doing a whole bunch of stuff in a
day you know when today for example I
already had two meetings I'm like I'm
here I'm gonna go home and go prep first
she I do so many things in a day and
people like how how do you do this like
what does the trick it's because I
really love what I do and I'm really
passionate about what I do and I think
one of the signs my body and mind were
giving me before is that I would get
lazy really quickly I would get tired
really really quickly I would cut
corners and come up with little
justifications as to why that was okay
like I would be studying for my psychic
stuff and being like oh well like you
know is this section really important
probably not you know we'll just skim
this over I don't do that with what I'm
doing right now I'm really thorough and
I think that's a sign of doing the right
thing of course if I'm real we don't
always have that luxury you know we
don't have the luxury of doing what we
want to do all the time so it's
important to kind of pay your dues and
that way the first video I made sucked
it's totally suck my body wasn't like
this is the right thing to do you know I
had to pay my dues and get better at it
but I think you shouldn't just not try
because if to pay your dues I want to
talk about that so what I love in that
and you've got the whole thing of take
the stairs over the escalator and that
your whole path to success has been the
stairs it's been the long run it's been
the slow build which is amazing and you
talk about that creates a much better
foundation so if this is a process about
the book I'm so this is like more than
like a little synopsis you read this is
very good
yes sir subscribe thank you and what
what I really want to know so if this is
a process like okay so I begin to
recognize the things that that are
making me tired fatigued and these are
signs that I'm not on the right path but
I know the next question is gonna be so
how do I find the right path what what
is that process yeah you know for me I
went through this phase where I just
stopped saying no to things so when I
first started youtube I thought okay I'm
I'm opening the gates up to this new
platform and this new type of creation
I've never done before
but I've also started going to shows
more often I start to meet different
types of people I think a big part of
finding out what's right for you is stop
confining yourself to a path that you've
been convinced is the path this what I'm
doing right now is nowhere on the path
for a young Indian girl that's a part of
my family like this is nowhere on the
path it was very much so go to school
and get married and have kids and that's
the success if you if you're able to
have those kids and give my mom some
grandkids you're successful and I think
it's about really stepping outside of
that and exploring whether that's in
school and taking classes that you might
not take at first glance whether it's
going and experiencing different types
of arts meeting different types of
people making new friends I think
there's so much out there that you don't
even know exists and I'm a testament to
that I make videos on the internet ask
my mom if she thought that could have
been a job when she was growing up you
know so I think it's all about just
really getting out there and seeing
what's available and so then what are
the signs that somebody should look for
to know that okay this is something that
resonates I think okay I love sleep I
just do a verse that I love sleep but
there's some mornings when I wake up and
I'm like I don't even care how tired I
am I'm so excited about this day so I
think being excited to wake up also
you'll just see it in your energy I
think as well a little pep in your step
I have what I want
walking to set is really telling also
the people you surround yourself with I
think when you start to get surrounded
by people and my team is a great example
of this that really bring out the best
in you and you feel yourself growing and
learning and maybe a little more patient
or a little more creative or you think
about things a little differently any
type of evolution like that I think is
definitely science or doing the right
thing you know this this entire career
path has been everything but comfortable
no part of its come
so even on the days when I come home and
I think that was horrible the audition
was horrible I can literally feel part
of me evolving as like okay what you did
it and I you know for the next one what
to do you'll know what to expect for the
next one and those scary things are all
signs that you're doing the right thing
you're growing that's really interesting
and the concept of getting outside of
your comfort zone I know that's really
big for you how do you push yourself to
do that and how do you make sure that
you're getting something out of it
because I'll give you like a real fear
that I have for people because it's
exactly what happened to me so I forced
myself out of my comfort zone same thing
I know that famous quote like your your
dream worlds just on the other side of
your comforter and all that so I put
myself into business I was learning it I
was always behind always was
embarrassing myself and looking stupid
and so as I was gaining skills I was
also gaining a massive amount of anxiety
and so how do people make the most of
those moments of discomfort well you
know it's I'm happy that you touched on
anxiety because it's a real thing and a
lot of being an entrepreneur is
stressful and it is it does take a toll
on your body your mind and your health
and so something I believe to be equally
as productive as work is meditation and
taking some time to recover
I have something called rejuvenation
Sunday I mean it's in my calendar it
prompts up sometimes on that Sunday I'm
like need you to work but it's in my
calendar and it goes off every Sunday I
think taking those times to actually
consolidate those lessons and resetting
yourself is very very important because
at the end of the day we are beings I
get tired and we wear down and I think
that's important but making the most out
of stepping out your comfort zone I have
this thing where I like to visualize
things I know because it's easy to talk
about all of these things and then talk
about tumblr cause like cool success but
what are you're actually down to it's
hard it's hard walking into an audition
for an example and then doing really
badly and going home and thinking was oh
well I stepped out of my comfort zone so
I should be happy that's not a practical
thing that's gonna happen you're gonna
go home and be sad you're gonna eat the
ice cream I've done it I've done it all
the time but I think visualizing like
okay this is me this is my goal and I
literally do this with my hands every
time I haven't failure this is me this
is the goal there is nothing in between
there I need to create whatever between
there whether I do really well are
really bad that's gonna be a step and I
think visualizing every failure
a little stone towards where you need to
go is really helpful you talk really
powerfully about ownership and taking on
ah
so in those moments where you've just
fallen on your face and you're feeling
uber shitty and you want to go eat the
bowl of ice cream or maybe you're
knee-deep in the hog cause how do you
begin to like get yourself out of that
to tell yourself something that's that's
ownership based that's like this was me
I created this situation and so yeah the
reason I'm so big on ownership is
because I'm obsessed with efficiency and
I just look it's so much more efficient
to take ownership for things then to not
because if you don't take ownership for
something who's gonna fix it then it's
just hanging there in the air of this
old and solved problem that no-one's
addressing when you take ownership for a
mistake or decision or something you did
not even a mistake maybe a bad audition
you did you are then able to at least
work on it and improve for the next time
if you don't take ownership like oh is
the casting director always cuz I was a
sickos because of whatever you've
literally said okay I need to change
nothing now it's not in my control
taking ownership means you've taken
control to actually make a different
impact the next time you do that thing
so it's just the smart factual
scientific efficient thing to do and
when you take that control how do you
keep it from damaging your sense of self
oh yeah the tough one is what ice cream
helps as well here's the thing a lot of
this and I'd be lying if I said that I
was always super confident and always
you know feeling myself I'm not I have
days where I'm super low and I'm not a
roller coaster just like everybody else
it's okay to feel crappy sometimes I
think it's important to feel crappy
sometimes everyone should know what it
feels like to feel crappy because then
when you don't feel crappy like for
example when I was standing there and
you were introducing me you're like
highest paid from I thought oh my god
remember when I felt crappy and it's
really important moments when you don't
feel crappy but I would say your
self-worth has to come from not only
yourself but your environment I'm really
big on your physical spiritual and even
the people around you are really
important so when I went through a lot
of failures it was hard to dig myself
out when it was me alone in my bedroom
and my parents were downstairs not
because my parents are bad at prints are
lovely but they had no idea about the
world I was in or what I was going
through when I'm with my team and my
friends that are kind of
not only supportive but can really
relate to what you're going through and
its really helpful so how do you how do
you dig out of that obviously you got to
love yourself that might be hard
surround yourself with good people in a
good environment put sticky notes around
your room you know have things that make
you happy around your room my room and
my whole home is just like it's like a
positive rainbow Willy Wonka amazing I
have a drawer that's just full of
Skittles like it's not because I want to
eat it's just full of Skittles just
because opening the drawer makes me
really happy and I want to see that many
skittles every time I open the drawer I
so good I mean so what I'm feeling bad
or for addition I just go there's good
you know small things I've quotes all
around my house
I have certain friends that are my go-to
friends that not necessarily because
they give the best advice they're just
gonna listen they're gonna be there I'm
not gonna judge me it's a it's
impossible to think you can do these
things on your own you can do a lot of
it you're by yourself but you're gonna
reach a point where you're like I need
good people in a good environment to
pull myself out of these bunks that I
get from stepping out of my comfort zone
that's amazing and it's super
interesting given your context so now
back to your parents you're surrounded
by sister parents a whole culture they
all have ideas for where you should be
going and it seems like from the things
you say that your family's just like
beautiful people that want good things
for you but at the same time they were
pushing you in a direction that wasn't
making you happy so how do you buck
against societal trends how do you push
against your parents like how do you
build the courage the self-confidence
maybe it's the vision to live a life
that hasn't been lived before the simple
answer is I had to prove it like there
was no fairytale scenario where I went
up to my parents and said I want to do
this let me do this I'm gonna go do this
now they were like come back here you
have a year to do this and they
literally told me if you don't get
anywhere in a year you're going to go to
grad school so I had a timeline on my
success where I needed to prove in a
year I could make something happen in
the entertainment industry gratefully
that worked out but not easily all they
wanted to know was that my daughter's
gonna be okay she's gonna be able to
sustain for herself and she's not gonna
be on the streets quite bluntly that's
what they wanted
and so I had to prove it I had to
take them to my shows they saw me
perform I had to go look here's a check
I got a check I bought this thing I
bought a camera I bought this with money
and had to prove to them that this could
become something because listen a lot of
our parents especially mine that are
from a different time in place it's not
that they want you to be unhappy they
just don't get it you know my mom grew
up in a time when like I said making
videos on the Internet she didn't have
the internet there wasn't even that
option it was literally like you're
gonna be a teacher a doctor a lawyer
that's what we know and that's that's
all so they weren't telling me to go to
school because they hate me we're
telling me to go to school because they
were like that's what you have to do
what else is there to do and I had to
teach them and I think there's a
learning curve that's really important
there so you've talked a lot about
obsession and you said you worked
relentlessly hard to do that do you
cultivate that obsession like how do you
separate yourself from the people who
are really good how do you become really
extraordinary it's is that what you said
you have to be obsessed and I know if
the word obsessed has a negative
connotation and rightfully it should a
little bit I think anyone who's really
great at something is because they're
obsessed they wake up and they're
thinking about it and throughout their
day they're thinking about it and when
they sleep they're thinking about in the
middle of a night they might wake up
thinking about it that is me with this
video ideas I wake up in the middle of
night and I have to wake up and just
bring down some of my video ideas our
little dreams I've had so like working
in my sleep there is a level of
obsession and when I say that usually
people say well that's not really that
healthy and you're right some of it is a
little unhealthy sometimes it does take
over my life sometimes I'd rather draw
the line and I say nope I need to go
meditate in my room I can't do this but
I don't know of a single successful
person that did it for at least a little
period of time had that obsession over
being successful let me ask you in those
moments where you decide you're gonna go
meditate is that based on hours you've
spent or how you feel how I feel 100%
how I feel which is more reactive than
proactive so I would love to change that
but I'm very scientific with things I'm
very like when I write down my thoughts
I will literally dissect them figure out
what problems they're come up with
solutions and write down the solution so
I'm very mechanical I I do believe that
humans we are complex we have feelings
we have emotions but I do think when we
strip all that away there are very easy
solutions to a lot of our problems that
we make complicate
yeah that kind of process-based
self-awareness i find really really
interesting how much time do you spend
doing that depends how I feel sometimes
it can be like hours or sometimes it can
just pick a quick 30 minute thing I need
to do so picking up on that how you feel
things so first of all I'm way an
enabler for people that are obsessed so
if being obsessed is bad and it's a drug
addiction I'm like your dealer I
appreciate that because I always like
say that with a bit of caution where I'm
like okay my thing is either you want an
extraordinary life or you don't and if
you want an extraordinary life you're
gonna have to pay an extraordinary price
like that that's just the way life goes
so I'm actually really interested in
that and I when I hear you talk about it
I always hear the hedge and I get it
because you live in a world where people
are gonna make comments and eliminate
some of that I've had videos where I've
talked about this
I had a bunch of people that like well
that's not healthy which are encouraging
kids you're cursing them out to sleep
I'm like no I sleep I'm not encouraging
not asleep but I do want to
realistically tell people that if you
want to achieve something at such a
level like costs a price because I do
fear right now with all the cute tumblr
quotes and all the you know the idea
that you're special and you're worth it
everyone special and you are with but
you need to work for it like it's not
gonna at UM blur quote of you believing
in yourself is not gonna get you success
so I also do fear that the opposite of
that is letting kids know like yeah get
your sleep and get this and just believe
in yourself and you're special you'll
get it done like is that is that really
gonna get them success though it's that
in combination with a lot of hard work
and I think that latter part is never
told in a very straightforward accurate
way yeah I love that you had a quote
that really hit me on paraphrase that
I'll get close yeah
the universe may like the law of
attraction but it likes a hustle good
hustle even more
that's like word-for-word what it is by
the way I immediately that was the word
for a word what the quote is well it's
such a good quote and it's so important
for people to understand and one thing I
would love for you to try to capture for
people is and and I'll serve this one up
because I know you like the hard
questions I've watched your or your
you're live answers you're great by the
way
and what is the beautiful part the
beautiful part of an obsession because I
know you don't want so the reason I kept
harping on do you do it based on time or
feeling and you said always feeling
which means you're in tune so when you
give the advice you're assuming that
persons in tune that they listen to
themselves and when it's getting
unhealthy you would expect them to stop
but what's that beautiful part of the
obsession of going after something
extraordinary that you want you want
that young girl or young boy to see and
chase honestly its purpose my obsession
has given me great purpose I would know
what it feels like to wake up and just
aimlessly be like guess I'm gonna go
through the motions of my day and when
you'll talk to this first I know eat
these fruit loops cool I'll do whatever
I need to do waking up with my obsession
is it's honestly exciting I get to wake
up I get to make rules and break rules
when you have an obsession amount of
what industry you're in you get into
that mindset were you're like what else
could I do to innovate this what can I
do differently what kinda has ever done
been done before so every day you really
feel like you're adding value to the
world and adding value to the people
around you that's the beautiful part of
obsession my obsessions led me to 13
million subscribers that watch me and
also gain inspiration from what I do and
you know I'm hoping the people that
surround me everyday also inspired by
some of the stuff we do so it's it's the
chain reaction you cause you know that
purpose and you give other people first
person now they're gonna give someone
else purpose so it's just it's you lose
a little sleep but look at the result
it's a small cost to pay I feel and I
love sleep I love sleep I need to
emphasize that I love sleep but like
there's gonna be days like on tours a
prime example on a regular day like how
many hours of sleep do you need on if
you're like I'm rested I need this many
hours of sleep six yeah see that for me
that's amazing you're a superhero me if
I could choose ten hours I would like
want ten hours of sleep but then on tour
when I'm travelling around the world and
performing there's days where I get to
and I wake up and I'm like let's go
let's do the thing it's a small cost to
pay for sometimes for a big result I
love that man and your ability to create
energy is extraordinary and I I'm gonna
reach in the near soul cuz I know you
did
some purpose you filmed a few videos
where you were sick or exhausted or
whatever and you would leave for frames
frames of your exhaustion at the very
end so you'd be like yeah right as you
cut the camera at the very end and I was
like that's so smart because I can in
that realize the the power statement
which is if you want something in life
you're gonna have to create energy
you're not always gonna feel like doing
it yeah I in addition to entertaining I
do funny stuff that's primarily what I
do but a lot of what I would like to I
believe I'm doing is encouraging the
hustle it's like I doing all this funny
stuff it's not a ten-minute be or
doesn't take ten minutes you know it
takes a village and it takes a lot a lot
of time and you're absolutely right I do
do that in my vlogs in my main channel
videos I did not shy to let people know
how much work this takes I think that's
what makes what I do so special because
back in the day traditional for lack of
a better word celebrities they were
perfect they were always on and always
flawless I would like to show people a
person who works really tired it was
really long hours that's really tired
gets pimples and like it that's what it
takes to do what I'm doing you know it's
not just that I show up and everything's
glamorous and then I reap all the
benefits that's not what it is
that's not what it's for anybody but
it's not it's a lot of work so if you're
watching this and you're like let me
dissect this interview like what are the
tips and tricks there's no tips and
tricks there's a lot of work it's a lot
of work it's a lot of focused work and
that's that's the biggest message I can
drive home is that of course there's
practices and things you can do but you
need to stop making excuses you need to
put your head down and you can make a
plan and then you just execute the plan
word yeah it's true and the two things I
think stall people out is one they're
looking for
a tip or trick or a shortcut which means
that they're just coming at it from the
wrong way and then - nobody does what
you just did we just talked about the
beautiful part the the reward the
purpose that you get out of something
just really really extraordinary talk to
me about that this was arguably the most
surprising thing that I read in your
book and that was that for somebody who
is so vulnerable you don't always want
to show all your vulnerability
you want to keep some secrets yeah so
yeah yeah I just I think I grew up and I
think many people do grow up thinking
that a successful relationship or a
right correct relationship as one where
you are completely transparent with
other people and I'm gonna say yes and
no to that you know I grew up with a
very strong mother that had to deal with
some challenges in her life and she
wasn't always able to show all of her
cards to everyone and that's something
she taught me at a young age she thought
you can be honest doesn't give a lied to
people but there's no need to share
every detail about your strengths and
weaknesses in your life with other
people because you never know where life
is gonna take you you never know what
that information will be used for and so
it's the same thing of what I'm in a
meeting
you know if I'm listening to someone
I've been told very often that I have a
poker face in meetings and that the
person does know what I'm thinking and
that's my version of being secretive
it's I don't want them to know if I'm
really really excited or from
super-disappointed what they're saying
because I want time to think about it
and I want to after this meeting go back
and consolidate my thoughts and then
approach it with you know tactic so I
don't want to always be so revealing I
think that's important I love how much
you you make moves right you calculate
you do things according to a plan yes go
to a plan but sometimes I also just like
if I'm feeling something is right I'm
like this is not a part of plan but this
feels right for me that's interesting
how often do you override it's hard to
put a ratio on it I'd say I do like to
be calculated but on the off chance that
there is something that needs to be
addressed that's not calculated I will
do so accordingly because I still want
to have that human instinct in me I
think that's important to not die plan
plan plan that's good but I still wanna
have the ability be like I need to act
and jump right away on this thing what I
find interesting about people that have
a degree of like okay I know exactly
what I'm trying to get from my life
there's a really a plan here there's a
roadmap there's something I'm executing
against is they're just able to
accomplish so much more and then the
intriguing part becomes that the ability
to believe in the big thing and you've
been really open about just how much you
want to accomplish in your life how have
you stepped into owning that which i
think is really really difficult for
everybody and can be
almost paralyzing for some women because
they're not rewarded for it often times
so how have you learned to step into
that what are things that people could
take away and implement in their own
lives I'm glad you said the women part
because I think that's something women
really struggle with I've had this
conversation with I think our mutual
friend of ours
Cassie as well and I talk with a lot of
my fellow women and I'm like okay we are
all bomb like we're doing a lot of cool
stuff every time we have to talk about
it we're kind of like okay let's just
beat around the bush a little bit it's
difficult for women I think we're not
praised for that I started to care less
about that and the prime reason for that
is I have a very good idol and his name
is Dwayne the rock Johnson and I think
he is someone who is so successful and
the number one thing I've learned from
him is how he shares the success in such
a humble way that also validates himself
have you ever just gone his Instagram
it's one place that's like this cool
stuff is happening and it's really
exciting and important for me so I'm
gonna I'm gonna share it because it
means a lot to me but this is this
doesn't make me better than anybody else
and nor does this put me on a pedestal
of any type not because it's gonna alter
the way you think right now I'm just
proud of this thing and so I think we
need to change our association our
relationship with our success in that
way it's interesting so you talk about
taking the GPS deep and really going
inside yourself you're really figuring
out what your issues are what motivates
you how do people do that how do they
get good at that how do they get good
because you like you even broke it down
like this is level one discovery yeah
yeah so how do you help people figure
out what the realities of those tears
are yeah so quick summary would be that
anything we do any action we make I
believe we have many layers as to why we
made that decision at the top is like oh
I made this decision out what I want to
tell everybody else of why I made that
decision the second layer is what I tell
myself so say if I took this glass and I
broke this glass okay what I tell
everybody else is like oh it slipped the
glass slipped then when I told myself
when I dig little deeper is oh I thought
it would be funny so I like broke the
glass okay but if I dig really really
deep into like what the real reason I
smashes glass it would be because
honestly I think the segment I was doing
really bad and I wanted distraction
that's not true I think I'm killing this
point of this example what I'm saying is
when you dig really really deep there's
we lied to ourself so often and that's
the number not the number one but one of
the ways to succeed is just to really
address that because people think of
lying to other people only what do you
think of lying you think oh I lied to my
mom I lied to my boyfriend lied to her
we lie to ourselves all the time about
why we did something why we said
something sometimes our instincts can
kick in like if you asked me an
uncomfortable question I'll respond
right away because it's uncomfortable
but what I'm saying to you is not true
if I dig deeper I understand why I acted
that way it's really important you need
to be R in tune with yourself if you
want to be successful I mean the world
it gets really uncomfortable success
comes really uncomfortable sometimes
it's a lot of stress a lot of pressure
if you're not truly in tune with your
biggest teammate which is yourself
there's no way you can succeed you need
to turn yourself really well so I
encourage everyone to actually write
down things like I made this decision
why did I do that
write down all the reasons you did it
and be real with yourself say it out
loud in an empty room where no one can
hear you so there's no pressure why did
you say that why did you do that were
you scared were you nervous and then why
you can go back to your childhood
sometimes I can go back to some horrible
experiences you had but it's better to
address it yeah yeah I know for sure you
talked a lot about loving yourself so in
that process of going in how do you help
yourself or maybe how do you help other
people when they dig deeper and they
realize some of their motives are ugly
to them right that they know that it's
coming from an insecurity or something
how do you help them even in those
moments love themselves sort of warts
and all I have this analogy of my book
which is like listen when you dig really
deep sometimes you find things that are
horrible that can't be fixed sometimes
you've had a childhood or experience
really like I can work really hard on
this but I know this is so embedded in
my very every molecule of myself I won't
be able to change it and then my
analogies alright then put a bucket
under a leaky faucet if you know what's
there you can at least be really honest
about it the example I gave in the book
is I have major trust issues I openly
admit that everyone watching is like
preach girl same I know we can all
relate but it's when you when you dig
deep down you'll you'll find the reason
for those trust issues is either
something you can work on and then
hopefully you can fix or something you
simply cannot and my bucket for that
leaky faucet is every relationship I get
into literally I tell them this exact
center like listen I have really big
trust issues if you lie to me I will not
be able to forgive
you I'm telling you right now that's why
I'm single first date that's what I say
but don't you know but it's true that's
what I say I say I want to it's not that
I don't want to forgive you every part
of me will want to forgive you if you
lie but I will not be able to I'm openly
telling you this right now so that you
know if you lie that's gonna be the
leaky faucet that comes out and all
you're gonna have is a bucket you're not
going to fix it so it's about addressing
it and being honest like that there's
not solutions every problem that's okay
at least you know the problem at least a
problem isn't that you don't know the
problem yeah yeah yeah for sure so as
people go into this and as they begin to
accept themselves how do they start
getting momentum going in a positive
direction so that they're they really do
feel love for themselves at the first
thought they have in the morning isn't
one that's negative how do they from a
process standpoint make that happen for
me there was a period of time where I
really didn't love myself I think it's
that time before I started YouTube or if
I loved myself I would have got out of
bed you know if I loved myself or I and
that's not fair I guess there's there's
a lot of reasons but from my personal
journey I guess not to generalize if I
loved myself I would have had goals at
that time I would have taken better care
of myself I would have spent time with
my friends my change came with not only
within but how I was treating myself
outside like I mentioned so I stopped
putting myself in a dark room I started
opening the curtains I started to answer
my friend's phone calls I started to
talk to people the first time I ever
talked to my parents about anything I
was feeling really really strongly
emotionally was when I got out of that
depression prior to that for all the
years of my life I'd never had a
conversation with my parents that was
like this is what I'm really feeling
inside and so I started to accept that I
needed help and I need to talk to people
I even started dressing differently I
was like these shoes are fun I'm gonna
wear these shoes they just make me happy
and it was making all those small
decisions every single day a lot of
positive self-talk as well I think you
know even now when I accomplish
something I don't care how many people
come up to me and say congratulations
did really well this is a cool thing
when I lie down at bed
I literally hug myself and like you did
really good that was a really good thing
you did today even today with all the
people that are validating me it still
means something for me to tell myself
you did a really good job if I'm having
a bad day
this is something I've practiced for
years I will talk to myself as well you
know if I had a really bad meeting I'll
get into my car and I go
that sucked it's okay you know what
we're gonna do better next time
and it's just about being your friend
you know just like how you would talk to
another friend you gotta talk to
yourself the same way and it's a journey
there's no easy solution there's no like
now I love myself it's a process it's a
journey it's gonna be hard as all things
are well so now let's really make it
complicated so when you mess up yep
you're gonna have an internal critic
that's always brutal but in today's age
with social media and you're like an
extreme example of somebody that has to
deal with this but every kid now has to
deal with like the one-off tweet about
them being fat ugly stupid whatever how
do you encounter something like that and
not let it become part of your internal
narrative yeah I think with social media
we really need to understand why people
use it the way they use it I truly
believe this should be a class in school
because social media is such a big part
of everyone's life when someone writes
something on the Internet
we need to really put ourselves in their
shoes this is what I literally do I got
a lot of hate comments I mean someone
just commented saying like I slept with
YouTube execs to get my subscribers and
I'm like but literally I just imagined
the person sitting there writing this
comment and I think okay I didn't write
a comment like this to someone today I
didn't wake up and think that I need to
write something mean to someone why why
didn't I do that let me think it's
because well when I'm busy I'm happy I
don't that doesn't make me happy doing
that won't make me happy and I just
don't see the need to do that so why did
this person feel the need to do that so
I put myself in their shoes well clearly
they gained something from this or else
people don't do things everyone does
things because it makes them feel good
or they gain something from it that's
why people smoke even though they know
they get cancer because it feels good
and so they're gaining something from
putting someone else down which means
they're not happy they're not in a happy
place they're not accomplishing the
goals they want to accomplish I think
it's really important at a young age for
kids to know that that when someone
writes something on the internet they're
not telling your story they're telling
theirs they're telling their story of
unhappiness of not being where they want
to be and I really believe that so
there's many times where I really hate
comment and I go oh I'm gonna roast you
and I write something and I I literally
just delete it because I'm like I'm not
I'm not you
have your own issue you're dealing with
and I'm not gonna it's going to be to no
benefit to me to respond I know you you
talk really interestingly about getting
control of your mind you've talked about
treating basically life like you're
playing Nintendo how do you get control
of your emotions how do you get no watch
just by the way because I would love a
brand new know if you're watching this
it's in my book you might as well I
think it goes a little bit back to
taking ownership you know when you take
ownership it's not like when you're
playing in tender you go Oh Mario died
because the thing and the genome art you
killed Mario like just take the
ownership so I think it goes back to you
can't control the environment you're in
now when you have a really really bad
day you can't control the other driver
that cut you off you can't control
whoever was mean to you you can't
control the fact that you missed the
elevator you can't control all those
things you can only control yourself so
it's about being more proactive how do
you do that well okay if a driver is
gonna cut you off but it's a really good
music so in a good mood leave five
minutes earlier you know if you missed
the elevator and you were late wake up
earlier it's about doing those proactive
things and the simplest example the
simplest example everyone can relate to
what's the most infuriating thing that
happens to us every day our phone dying
back in the day this used to infuriate
me my phone would die and I'd have to go
to a meeting and I wouldn't know where
it was or where to park and I went to
GPS would die you know what I did I
played Nintendo I was like well I can't
control the phone I can't control the
environment I can't control the parking
of the meeting you know how to control
putting a damn charger in my car and
then that's what I did and then that
whole situation was solved that's a
really small example but we have things
like that throughout our entire lives
not having the thing you need when when
you need it or not getting somewhere on
time not having the conversation you
type there's solutions to all those
things if you just take control and
figure out what's in your control and
stop blaming the environment and I used
Mario because it's a prime example the
platform is not to blame you can't blame
Bowser you can't blame the Koopa Troopa
that's smart you can you blame Mario you
are Mario those are some good references
so talk to me about your concept of F
Plan B yes F a plan B I'm sure this is
probably a thing in a lot of cultures
not just specific to Indian culture but
my parents always raised me with a huge
huge importance on having a plan
and a plan B so something to fall back
on and that's very often how my parents
viewed a degree as well I would always
be like but I don't want to do
psychology I don't want to use my
psychology degree I'm never gonna do
something related to this and my dad
always be like well it's something to
fall back on
but that was always that they thought
you should have a back-up plan I felt
that when I decided to take that year
toss it really hard that back-up plan
was always in my mind as something to
fall back on
so any time I would work really hard I
would think oh well if I don't figure
this out you know I have that backup
plan and if this video stuff doesn't
work out then I won't fail because I
have that backup plan but because I was
doing that I think I wasn't putting the
two thousand percent effort I need it
into things because there was always
that safety net there when I officially
decided like no I am NOT going to do
that I'm going to do what I set out to
do which was do entertainment and in
this year I'm gonna become successful I
started doing things with so much more
effort and relentlessness where you
could see the difference in the result
and I know that's really scary and a lot
of parents disagree with me when I say
this but I think it's important I think
you know kids need to be given credit I
think if they have a plan a and really
really give it their all and see years
and years room now it doesn't go
anywhere they will figure it out I think
kids these days are really smart and
they have a lot of options and they have
a lot of resources and and the fact that
I'm sitting here with a career that I
have is a testament to that that's
interesting and I loved earlier when you
said that there should be a class for ya
figuring some of this stuff out which is
I think there should be a class for
figuring out the internet and also
figuring out just working hard
I honestly a lot of the things in my
book are not things I learned in school
you know there of course is classes
there's biology there's English although
there should be a classes just about
work ethic how to work well what it mean
and also how to work differently not
everyone learns in the way school is
structured that's something that really
drove me crazy at the end of my
university career was I can't learn
through sitting in this lecture for
three hours but this professor that's
just talking to me like I'm not really
applying this information anyway I've
learned so much being practical in the
world and learning thing hands-on and
some people are like that and I think
school needs to let them know that's
okay because a lot of kids leave school
thinking I didn't learn how else
so I must be dumb no you just might need
to learn a different way and there
should be an actual class find your way
of learning that's to be called yeah no
I actually think that's really powerful
and I think a lot of people struggle
really profoundly with that let's talk
about girl love the initiative what is
it about what made you kick it off what
do you hope comes of it well I want to
start this conversation by saying back
to your point of what do you do when you
fail how do you get over it
girl love is a prime example of a huge
failure that I turned into something
that was not a failure so girl lab was
started because I was planning to do a
collab with someone that was a really
really cool actress that's an remain
unnamed but I was so excited to his clap
with her and the idea for a club was the
girl love challenge where we would sit
together just like we you and I and we
would compliment girls because of
whatever happened with the studio and
the books and the flights whatever it
couldn't happen to no fault of her own
and that's why I don't like to name her
name because I don't want the intern to
make it something it's not but it never
happened and I was so bummed about it I
really love this concept of having a
girl of challenge but it never happened
so I was super upset for three or four
days I was like I wanna make your videos
anymore forget it until I was like you
know what why don't I just still do it
but with all of my friends so we made
this girl a video where we all
complimented other women that were very
inspiring to us and it was a huge
success so many news outlets picked it
up other very notable celebrities hired
bangs pictured uh Priyanka Chopra said
something about it and it would just
became something online and people using
the hashtag girl up so in my mind it was
just a video that was supposed to happen
but after the success of it I thought no
we should make it a movement so a couple
years ago I decided to make it a
full-fledged social good campaign and
girl lavas ain't about two things one
from a local level it's just about
letting girls know that it's cool to
support other women because I feel
culturally that's not encouraged you
know everyone's talking about Taylor
Swift versus Katy Perry and the argument
that girls have in movies and how girls
have to fight over guys and it's not
very much so
spotlighted that women can support other
women that's cool
it's not just right it's cool cool being
the key word for young girls and the
second part of girl love is helping
women around the world
you know where there's education whether
it's rights whether it's health because
a big belief of girl love is one woman
cannot be successful women around the
world are struggling I really view
humanity like that even aside from girl
love I I don't feel that anyone can sit
there with a lot of money and fame and
think I'm really successful if other
humans in the world don't even have
water to drink I think real success is
making sure everyone on the planet has
those basic needs
that's what girl is all about it's about
banding women together and really
showing strength and sisterhood that's
interesting and so from that what like
when you think about creating a social
movement or having grand impact how
possible do you think that is here's the
thing I I struggled with us a lot and I
think a lot of people are so hesitant to
give to causes whether time or money to
causes because they think what
difference is really gonna make it such
a big bad world my little contribution
what can it do and I'm gonna argue it
can do a lot because impact is not just
affecting millions it's affecting the
one or two people that get impacted with
creative solutions an example I always
like to give is in Kenya one of the
places in the Masai Mara where I do a
lot of my work is a really common
problem and that problem is girls don't
usually get to go to school because
they're too busy fulfilling the demands
of the family life so they have to go
and fetch water from a well that's miles
away and they have to spend most of time
doing that so there's no time to go to
school now I first glance a lot of
people can be like what are you gonna do
about that you can't change the culture
you can't change what needs to happen
they need to drink water and then a
great organization by the name of we
came in like well what if we put the
water well at the school and I was like
that's a really creative solution to a
problem which you would otherwise
thought oh there is no solution to so I
would say every little contribution
every bit of creative thinking awareness
timely does make a difference there are
solutions to most problems I will say we
might not know what they are but they
exist they need we need to be creative
and innovative to come up with those
solutions but I do believe solutions
exist all of that all right before I ask
my last question I have to leave so
where can they find you online
I'm being where king and not by really
youtube youtube.com slash Lily singing
la LLY three L's all together saying Si
and G H Instagram iisuperwomanii same on
Twitter same on Facebook what else
exists that's pretty much it that I use
those are the things every Monday and
Thursday I make call many videos on
YouTube and I vlog every single day on
my second channel as well
nice yeah so this will be in the vlog
yeah and then last but not least what is
the impact you want to have on the world
the impact I want to have on the world I
think I really want to encourage people
to believe that whatever they want to be
even if it doesn't exist as possible and
that is because my job is so
unconventional and everything I wanted
is so different from what I was raised
to believe I could have and if you're
creative if you mix creativity with
hustling hard any job position
anything you want to become as possible
show people what your value is and then
they'll pay you for your value alright
guys I'm telling you right now you're
gonna want to dive into this woman's
world that is absolutely incredible the
content that she puts out is amazing
from the hilarious scripted stuff
through to the live stuff that she does
answering people telling them all kinds
of crazy stuff and often tormenting
herself by eating tomatoes and doing all
kinds weird things that she hates to
entertain and educate and I think this
is somebody who uniquely understands
that you have to entertain before you
have the right to educate and because
she does both her content is insanely
powerful and to see what she's done for
the journey of her own life is
absolutely breathtaking from being a
UNICEF Goodwill Ambassador to going and
doing work in Africa to what she's
trying to build by touching women's
lives all around the world through her
girl love initiative and the fact that
she tours literally tours around the
world absolutely incredible really
trying to be an example for people that
you can set your own path and what I
love is that her message is actually
real and so she's not biessing people
she's really telling people the hard
truth which
is that you've got to have something
that you love that gives you more energy
that you become obsessed with and that
you're willing to pour your time and
energy into to do something
extraordinary and that is a lesson that
I think everybody can take something
incredibly powerful away from so while I
know 99.9% of you are already following
her hence the numbers if you're not
already be sure to you will not regret
it and if you haven't already here be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary take care everybody
thank you so much for watching and being
a part of this community if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe you're
going to get weekly videos on building a
growth mindset cultivating grit and
unlocking your full potential